# <center>Effects of Computer Crime

## <center>Social Engineering

(Someone trying to get personal information out of you)

### Shoulder Surfing

Attacker uses observational techniquers, such as looking over someone's shoulder.

### Dumpster Diving

Attacker looking through dump items in a dustbin for any sensitive data that may have been thrown away

### Reverse Social Engineering

An attacker pretending to help the user into giving them sensitive data.

### Use of Social Media for Social Engineering

An attacker may search online for any personally exposed sensitive data

## Hackers, Crackers and Virus Authors

### Hackers and Crackers

Somebody who can access your system without your permission

**White-hat hackers** - non malicious hackers who test the security of the firm's own computer system by trying to break into it.

**Back hat hackers/Crackers** - malicious hackers who hack with the intent to steal or vandalise.

**Grey hat hackers** - lie inbetween both black and white hat. Grey sometimes act illegally. They may break through a sstem without authorisation in order to put vulnerabilities on show and then charge the owner a fee to repair it.

### Virus Writers

## Theft

### Hardware Theft

Stealing physical devices like a computer or server.

### Software Theft

Stealing or copying of using software illegally.

## Effect of Cyber Crimes

-   Financial loss and damage to reputation.

-   Loss of data and disruption of services.

-   Legal consequences and loss of customer trust.
